---
layout: post
title: MDAnalysis is a NumFOCUS Sponsored Project!
---

<img src="{{ site.baseurl }}{{ site.images }}/numfocus-sponsored.png"
style="float: right" alt="NumFOCUS Sponsored" width="40%"/>

**[MDAnalysis is now a NumFOCUS Sponsored Project]({{
site.numfocus.sponsored_project }})!**

Let us explain who MDAnalysis and NumFOCUS are and what being a
sponsored project means:

[**MDAnalysis**]({{ site.baseurl }}/about) is an open source software
project that produces the *MDAnalysis Python library* for the analysis
of computer simulations of many-body systems at the molecular scale,
spanning use cases from interactions of drugs with proteins to novel
materials. It is widely used in the scientific community and is
written by scientists for scientists. The MDAnalysis Project is
represented by the [MDAnalysis Core Developers]({{ site.baseurl
}}/about#governance).

[**NumFOCUS**](https://numfocus.org/) is an organization that promotes
open practices in research, data, and scientific computing by serving
as a fiscal sponsor for open source projects and organizing
community-driven educational programs. In brief, they provide
financial and logistic infrastructure to [many open source
projects](https://numfocus.org/sponsored-projects) that fulfill
important roles in their communities. NumFOCUS is a 501(c)(3) public
charity in the United States and it is able to accept
donations for and on-behalf of projects and act as a grantee.

NumFOCUS will accept funds on behalf of the MDAnalysis Project and
then make them available to us. By becoming a [fiscally sponsored
project](https://numfocus.org/projects-overview), we agreed that **all
software produced under the MDAnalysis umbrella is and will be free
Open Source software** and that any funds will be spent compliant with
NumFOCUS' tax-exempt status: what this means in practice is that **all
funds will go to further the growth and well-being of the project**.

So if you want to donate to MDAnalysis: you can now do this easily
by clicking this button:

{{ site.numfocus.donate_button }}

More importantly, with NumFOCUS as a partner, MDAnalysis gains a
long-term perspective for stable development that becomes less
dependent on individuals and academic institutions. It allows the
project to obtain its own funding and move in directions that best
benefit its community. For example, it will become easier to organize
workshops, arrange for developers to travel, and to hire developers.

For users and developers, the way the MDAnalysis Project operates will
not change: it remains a friendly and respectful community that
welcomes everyone's contributions and that is committed to producing
good software that helps us all do interesting science. But together
with NumFOCUS, we will be able to do more than before... stay tuned!

â€” [@MDAnalysis/coredevs](https://github.com/orgs/MDAnalysis/teams/coredevs)

